The Joe Rogan experience.
What's exciting to me is that I think this is the first time in my life that
I've ever seen so much communication on these subjects.
And I think so much recognition about the consequences of tribal
toxic tribalism, this tribal thinking that everyone seems to be engaged in,
on the right and on the left. I mean, in America,
you need to go no fruit then going back and forth from CNN to Fox news to say,
something's wrong here. These aren't, these are supposed to be news outlets.
You have two completely different narratives,
and that has nothing to do with what we're talking about with gender politics
and radical left socialism and Marxism. W what,
what you're seeing in universities though, um,
is a radical departure from what I always considered.
University's great for what I always considered universities great for is
separating from your parents,
challenging belief systems and being engaged in the,
the works of brilliant people who you can compare all of their
findings and their discoveries and, and sit down and debate them in class.
And when I was a kid, when I was in high school,
I went to a very good high school Newton south high school in Newton,
Massachusetts. And, uh,
one of the things that they did is they put on a debate between a guy from the
moral majority, which was this a right wing, uh,
Christian group that I don't even know if they're around anymore, but there,
this was 19. I was 14. So 81 and,
uh, Barney Frank,
who was that congressmen is now one of the first openly gay guys, uh, in,
in Congress. And, and, uh,
you got to watch these two people in this auditorium debate their
points, and this moral majority guy had this, you know,
right wing Ronald Reagan sort of point of view and Barney, Frank,
who's kind of crazy.
And he's got busted in some male prostitute scandal. And, uh,
but the gay community, that's not that big of a deal. And, uh,
just w Barney Frank took them apart. It was brilliant to watch,
but it was a real debate. It was fascinating.
And he got to see a mediocre mine versus a great
mind. And you got to see this little thing. And I was like, wow,
this is it's one of the things that's always attracted me about the,
the idea that two people with different viewpoints can get together in front of
a neutral audience. And these people can sort of decipher which,
which way these people are thinking and why they're thinking. Yeah.
And bad is that is,
and rife with conflict as that is the alternative is to separate,
as you pointed out into two camps that don't talk.
And the thing is that the consequence of not talking is that you fight that
that's the end game,
because the only way you can stop from fighting with other people is by
negotiating with them. And you know, one of the things that's also interesting,
and this is partly why Silicon valley leans to the left is that a fair bit of
your political preference is determined by your biological temperament.
It's a strongly influenced.
So if you're a creative type who's kind of disorderly,
then you're likely to be on the liberal left end of the distribution.
And if you're a non-creative type, who's orderly, and,
and especially if you're orderly,
then you tend to be on the right wing end of things. And so, and well,
why is that? Why, why do those variations exist? Well,
they exist because some of the time,
your best strategy is to do what other people have done and shut the hell up and
just do it, run the algorithm, right? The pathway's already laid clear.
It works, stay in the rut and move forward. Okay?
So that's the conservative approach. And when things are going, right,
it's the right approach. The problem is,
is that sometimes it's not the right approach because something has shifted.
And so something new has to emerge.
And so then there's a bunch of people who are adapted to the new,
and those are the entrepreneurial and creative types.
And of course they dominate Silicon valley because it's a very entrepreneurial,
it's a very entrepreneurial, what would you call it? Geography.
And so they're going to lean to the left, but they have to understand,
people have to understand that the left and the right need each other,
the liberals and the conservatives need each other liberal start companies,
conservatives run them. And the problem with the conservatives is, well,
they can only run a company in one direction because they're conservative.
They don't think outside the box.
But so if the company is working in the product line is good and everything is
stable. Like hire some conservatives,
cause they'll maximize efficiency in the move down that track.
But if the track is no longer going in a good direction,
because something's changed the environments change, well,
then you got to bring in the creative people. And so we need each other.
And the only way that we can survive the fact that we're different and the fact
that we need each other is by continually talking, we have taught constantly.
It's like, well, how much of what we're doing?
Should we preserve versus how much of what we're doing? Should we transform?
And the answer is, well, we don't know because the environment keeps changing.
So what do we do about that? We talk, oh,
I was on a CBC Canadian broadcasting corporation interview a couple of days ago.
And they took me to task. I tweeted out this, uh,
this invitation to the Keck boys to fill out this program that I developed
called future authoring. And it helps people make a plan to get my boys. Yeah.
Well, they're, they're an online group. They're they're they,
they run Kekistani, it's this fictional polity.
It's a P it's a satire of identity politics, essentially. We're gonna,
we're going to be our ethnicity, highly demonized. Santa's highly demonized.
With good reason for,
with some individual examples of racism and Nazi-ism
and.
Yeah, yeah. There's lots of misbehaves. It's like graffiti,
it's like online graffiti, something like that. So, um, and,
and the Keck boys are the ones who are often using the Pepe memes, for example,
and you know, the left regards Pepe as a hate symbol, the frog Pepe,
the frog feels good. That's right. That's right. It kind of reprehensible frog.
And so I tweeted out to them. I said,
Keck boys seek your four Chan rescue yourself from
the underworld use code peppy for future three.
So it's free for one week. So they had to figure out what it meant.
And then I showed this picture of Michigan J frog,
which is the frog from old Warner brothers, cartoon dancing,
frog that wouldn't perform when he was watching it.
So CBC hauled that out and said, well, look,
aren't you aren't you like appealing to the radical, right? And I said,
well, no, what I'm doing? I said, look,
these people are attracted by the radical, right?
Although they're satirists and juvenile satirists and graffiti types,
and they're playing a weird satirical game being naughty.
That's exactly what they're doing. They're they're provoking. And I,
my sense was, well,
why don't you develop yourself as an individual and get the hell out of the
ideological trap? So here's my program, which helps you write about your future.
And that'll help you decide who you are as an individual,
because that's the way out of the ideological trap. It's like,
and that's the way, obviously what's the way out of tribalism. First,
the way out of tribalism is not to never join a tribe.
You actually have to join a tribe as you mature, right? Because what happens is,
first of all, you're an infant. And then you have your parents to,
to make a relationship with. But then when you move from your parents,
you have your tribe, you have your group, maybe it's the music you listen to.
It's the gang. You hang around with whatever.
You have to be socialized into the tribe.
You have to cause otherwise you stay dependent infant. Okay.
But now you're socialized into the tribe. While is that where it ends?
It's like, no.
The next thing to do is differentiate yourself from the tribe while still
knowing how to behave within the tribe. Well,
that's the call to individualism and that's,
I think what the west got right is we figured that out. It's like,
you're more than your,
you have to be a member of a group because otherwise you're not socialized.
You're not good for anyone. You don't have to be able to play on a team. Man,
you have to have team loyalty. Okay? But that, isn't where you should stop.
You should take the next step and become a fully developed individual and
see the problem with being just a group member is that the group,
it's the problem with conservatism. The group is a fixed entity.
It has its rules and its regulations. And if you're a member,
that's all you are, but the group can go badly wrong.
So the group needs individuals to keep the group alive and revivified.
So you have to become an individual. So you can, revivify the group.
And that's the cult.
That's the call in the west to heroism essentially to noble way of living is to
develop yourself past your group identity so that you can reconfigure the game
when that becomes necessary.
And I think that there's a very influential line of developmental psychology
pioneered by John Piaget that laid that out as a developmental,
what would progression first? You're
a child. Then you're a member of a group.
Then you're an individual it's like get to the individual level.
That's the solution. It's a solution to tribalism,
but you have to accept responsibility to do that.
And this is what your future authoring program is basically all about. I mean,
it's, it's a wonderful program. It's, uh,
along with this book rules and guidelines for life,
I think that's one of the things that a lot of young people are lacking is a
structure to how to go about establishing who they are in the.
Yeah. Well, that's, what's really cool. And it's been really quite remarkable.
I would say, is that what I've noticed when I've been speaking publicly,
say over the last year and a half,
because there's a hole in our culture where there should be a discussion about
maturity, truth and responsibility. No, one's talking about that. Okay.
So now I'll come up and I'll start talking about that. I'll say, look like,
what should you do with your life? Well, take care of yourself,
but take care of yourself in a way that also means that simultaneously you're
taking care of your family.
And that also means that simultaneously you're taking care of the broader
community. So that's kind of your goal.
So orient your self towards that personal success,
but in a way that your success breeds success.
Because if you're going to establish a name,
why not establish like a really good aim? That's a good one. It's good for you.
It's good for everyone else. Yes. Okay. That'll give you life.
Some meaning now adopt make a plan, generate a vision.
That's what the future authoring program helps people with Mika develop a vision
of what your life could be like. If, if it was worth living,
despite all its suffering, it's like,
what would you need so that you would be happy to be alive?
You'd find your life meaningful.
So you don't get all bitter and resentful and cruel and hostile and
ideologically addled and like murderous and genocidal. It was like none of that,
you think real hard,
how would you have to configure your life so that despite its suffering and the
malevolence, that's part of it that you would regard it as worthwhile,
that's up to you to develop a vision, then put a plan into practice.
And so when I talk to people about this, and most of my audiences are young men,
it's probably about 65, 35 more and more women are showing up.
But that's about what it is right now. The halls are dead silent.
You could hear a pin drop because nobody's said so clearly for like 50
years, that almost all the meaning that you will need to get you through.
The hard times of your life is going to be a consequence of adopting
responsibility, not of rights and impulsive action, impulsive freedom,
like fine rights. Yeah. Got it. Freedom.
No problem. Even freedom to do impulsive things fine. But that,
isn't where you're going to find the meaning that keeps you sustained through
the storms of life. That's going to be, you take care of yourself.
You take care of your intimate partner. You take care of your family.
You don't run off. You take care of your community.
You rescue the wisdom from the past.
You stand up straight and you be courageous.
Despite the fact that life is tragic. And by malevolence, it's like,
that's the that's ancient wisdom. That's what that is.